.\" Hey, Emacs! This is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.\"
.\" Proccess this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii os_env.conf.5
.\"
.TH os_env 1 "May 2011" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
os_env.conf \- Configuration file for an
.B
os_env
embedded environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B <os_environment_root_directory>/os_env.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file contains one or more profiles for directories to overmount
and environment variables to override in 
.B os_env 
processes. The file format is standard Javascript Object 
Notation (JSON). The content of the file defines a single JSON object
where each variable name is the name of a profile and the value is a
JSON object containing that profile's content.

.SH PROFILES
Profiles may define three variables:
.B inherit, mounts,
and
.B environment
Each variable is optional. However, in order to use a profile it,
or one of the profiles it inherits from, must define at least one
mount override.

.SH INHERIT VARIABLE
If provided, this variable must be a string containing the name of
another profile. The mount point override list and environment list
from the inherited profile will be copied into the inheriting profile.
Chaining of multiple profiles via the 
.B inherit
variable is supported.
.PP
The inherited values for the
.B mounts
and
.B environment 
lists are always placed at the beginning of the list. Each link in
the inheritance chain appends it's values to the list. 

.SH MOUNT VARIABLE
If provided, the
.B mounts
variable must be a list of strings. Each entry in the list must conform to
the following format:
   "embedded_os_dir host_os_dir"

Neither entry requires a leading '/' (this is assumed) and the 
.I host_os_dir
will default to the same value as the 
.I embedded_os_dir
if it is omitted. If the profile inherits any mount points, the values
defined by the 
.B mounts
variable will be appended to the inherited values.

.I Note:
The 
.B os_env
utility will overmount directories in the order provided by the mounts
list.

.I Example:
    "mounts" : ["bin", "/usr/local /opt", "lib", "usr"]

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE
If provided, the 
.B environment
variable must be a list where each value in the list conforms to the
following format:
    ["VAR_NAME", "value"]

Each element of the environment list is specified as a 2-element list.
The entries in the environment list are processed in the order listed
and the modifications to the process's environment are made after each
element is processed. The value strings may refer to other environment 
variables in a manner similar to shell variables by either pefixing them
with a
.I $
or enclosing them with
.I ${}
Ex: "/foo/bar:$PATH:/home/${USER}_homedir".

.I Example:
    "environment" : [["TEMP", "/tmp/foo"], ["PATH", "/foo:$PATH"]]

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
{
  "default" : {
    "mounts" : ["bin", "etc", "lib", "sbin", "usr"]
  },

  "mod_path" : {
    "inherit" : "default",
    "environment" :
      [ [ "PATH", "/custom_path_prefix:$PATH"],
        [ "MY_VAR", "foo"] ]
  },

  "with_var" : {
    "inherit" : "mod_path",
    "mounts" : ["var /var"]
  }
}
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR os_env(1)    
.BR os_env_update(1)
