.\" Hey, Emacs! This is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.\"
.\" Proccess this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii os_env_update.1
.\"
.TH os_env_update 1 "May 2011" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
os_env_update \- Updates the /etc/passwd, /etc/group, and /etc/resolv.conf files
of os_env embeddeded environments
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBos_env_update\fR [\fB\fI--pid=min_uid:max_uid --gid=min_gid:max_gid\fR]
<\fB\fIos_root_dir | directory_containing_multiple_os_root_dirs\fB\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B os_env_update
utility updates the /etc/passwd, /etc/group, and /etc/resolv.conf files with
the relevant information from the host operating system. Although the use of
this utility is not required, failing to synchronize the content of these
files with those of the host os will prevent processes running in an
.B os_env
environment from resolving uid and gid values with their respective user
and group names. Also, DNS queries will fail without a properly configured
resolv.conf file. This applies only to 
.B os_env
environments that override the 
.I /etc
directory.
.PP
The directory passed to the
.B os_env_update
command may either be the root directory of an embedded operating system
(which must contain an 
.B os_env.conf(5) 
file). Or it may be the parent directory of multiple embedded operating systems.
In the latter case, 
.B os_env_update
will update all of the embedded systems.
.PP
The first time this command is used on an embedded environment,
.B os_env_update
will create a backup of each original file named 
<file_name>.os_env.backup
.PP
.TP
--pid
Defines the minimum and maximum user ids on the host system to include in
the embedded operating system's /etc/passwd file. These values will overwrite
any values in the embedded system's /etc/passwd file that fall within the same
range. The value of this argument must be in the format "min_uid:max_uid". If
not provided, the default of "1000:60000" is used.
.TP
--gid
Defines the minimum and maximum group ids on the host system to include in
the embedded operating system's /etc/group file. These values will overwrite
any values in the embedded system's /etc/group file that fall within the same
range. The value of this argument must be in the format "min_gid:max_gid". If
not provided, the default of "1000:60000" is used.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR os_env.conf(5)
.BR os_env(1)

